---
date: 2025-11-18
categories:
  - plato
  - socratic-method
---

# The Socratic Method example

The socratic method is a technique for exploring ideas by asking repeated questions that expose contradictions in what someone believes. 

<!-- more -->
A variation of the Socratic Method is often used in therapy, in the form of Carl Roger's active listening (with validation and empathy applied). A good example of Plato's use of the Socratic method is found in the book Euthyphro. 

Plato was a student of Socrates but the Socratic Method was his creation. Plato uses Socrates as the teacher in the dialogues rather than himself.

Euthyphro is a short book where they discuss Piety - religious devotion (or fanatical devotion, being pious).

- [Plato's books](https://gutenberg.org/ebooks/search/?query=plato)
- [Euthyphro](https://gutenberg.org/cache/epub/1642/pg1642-images.html)

**An extract:**  

> **SOCRATES:** No doubt, Euthyphro; but you would admit that there are many other pious acts?
> 
> **EUTHYPHRO**: There are.
> 
> **SOCRATES:** Remember that I did not ask you to give me two or three examples of piety, but to explain the general idea which makes all pious things to be pious. Do you not recollect that there was one idea which made the impious impious, and the pious pious?
> 
> **EUTHYPHRO**: I remember.
> 
> **SOCRATES:** Tell me what is the nature of this idea, and then I shall have a standard to which I may look, and by which I may measure actions, whether yours or those of any one else, and then I shall be able to say that such and such an action is pious, such another impious.
>
> **EUTHYPHRO**: I will tell you, if you like.
>
> **SOCRATES:** I should very much like.
>
> **EUTHYPHRO**: Piety, then, is that which is dear to the gods, and impiety is that which is not dear to them.
>
> **SOCRATES:** Very good, Euthyphro; you have now given me the sort of answer which I wanted. But whether what you say is true or not I cannot as yet tell, 
>although I make no doubt that you will prove the truth of your words.
>
> **EUTHYPHRO**: Of course.
>
> **SOCRATES:** Come, then, and let us examine what we are saying. That thing or person which is dear to the gods is pious, and that thing or person which is 
>hateful to the gods is impious, these two being the extreme opposites of one another. Was not that said?
>
> **EUTHYPHRO**: It was.