# Psychology notes

This site contains all my notes relating to a Psychology and a Psychology degree. Where possible I will reference the source of the notes, 
which are typically books and Youtube videos, as Youtube is a goldmine for Pyschology education, both good and bad.

These are my personal psychology notes, written in my own words or re-written by an LLM (this should be clear  when this is the case). 
Any brief quotes are for study purposes and credited to their sources.

## Contents

### Academic Psychology

- [Affect (emotion) theory](./emotions.md)

### Pyschotherapy and Pyschiatry

#### Ask LLMS

Using openrouter.ai, I've asked Claude, Deepseek, Gemini, Grok, ChatGPT Pyschology (Psychotherapy) related questions, asking for academic citations and references in the answer.

These are all viewable on ["Ask-llamas" mini-site.](./ask-llamas/)

#### Questionnaires & Inventories
The questions and choices for these questionnaires have been generated by a LLM, based on public material or the model itself, with exception to the FQ. 
I ask the LLM for its sources when I do this, and when there's questions of copyright, I don't continue - which fortunately is rare.

- [Adverse Childhood Events Questionnaire (ACE)](questionnaires/ace/index.html)
- [Ruminative Response Scale (RRS-10)](questionnaires/rrs-10/index.html)
- [Perceived Stress Scale (PSS-10)](questionnaires/pss-10/index.html)
- [Adult Rejection Sensitivity Questionnaire (A-RSQ)](questionnaires/a-rsq/index.html)
- [Children's Rejection Sensitivity Questionnaire (C-RSQ)](questionnaires/c-rsq/index.html)
- [Friendship Questionnaire (FQ, used in ASD diagnosis)](questionnaires/friendship-questionnaire/index.html)
- [Big5 (OCEAN/NEO-PI) personality test](questionnaires/big5/index.html)
- TODO: MACH-IV (https://github.com/yetanotherchris/openpsychometrics/blob/main/MACH_data/codebook.txt)
- TODO: NPI & Narcissism questionnaires
- TODO: Rosenberg Self-esteem inventory
- TODO: The Revised Janis-Field Feelings of Inadequacy Scale (JFFIS)
- TODO: The Outcome Questionnaire-45 (OQ-45)

#### General

- [Authors - various authors that I've learned about via academic Youtube lectures, interviews.](authors.md)
- [Chat GPT - some notes about how I've used Chat GPT for summaries.](chatgpt-notes.md)
- [YouTube video list - Psychology videos by category on Youtube](youtube-videos.md)
- [Cognitive Biases](cognitive-biases.md)
- [Logical fallacies](logical-fallacies.md)

#### Borderline personality organisation
Kernberg described Borderline personality *organisation* to include both BPD/EUPD and NPD.

- [Noteable Narcissism authors in Psychology (what causes Narcissism)](narcissism-authors.md)
- [Cluster B - my initial interest with academic Psychology was from learning about Cluster B personality disorders, these are the original notes](Cluster-B/)
